# Welcome to the ePortfolio for Christopher Parks


## Self-Assessment

Throughout my time at SHNU in the Computer Science program, I learned not only about coding languages and programming functions but also how to be a successful developer, working among a team, and practicing good development processes throughout a project.  Learning about Agile Development and team collaboration helped me build a healthy foundation in understanding how the Agile Environment but also how the different roles within an Agile Team come together to successfully and collaboratively create products.  I also learn about utilizing good Git practices to help manage team collaboration and working as a team to productively push and merge project information.  Throughout my projects and courses, I was introduced to maximizing my skills in communicating among a team along with Project Managers and company stakeholders so that effective communication can be transmitted throughout a project's development lifecycle. 

My skills were significantly improved throughout my course which involved learning new languages and improving my code formatting overall.  I learned many popular high-level languages like Java, C, C++, SQL, Linux, and Python along with learning about Assembly code and how to deconstruct code.  I worked in many different IDEs including Eclipse, NetBeans, and Android Studio, and became very familiar with their functionality and how to successfully create many different programs.  I took many courses in database structures learning the essential CRUD (create, read, update, delete) method for utilizing databases and how to use database information to create products for companies and end-users.  I was also introduced to more technical aspects of data algorithms of programs and how to create faster, more effective search methods and data processing throughout a code.  Lastly, security was highlighted across all courses and studied in-depth throughout my program.  I learn about security flaws and vulnerabilities, how vulnerabilities lead to data loss or end-user impact, and how to spot these vulnerabilities in code and prevent security flaws when programming.

All of this information you will see culminated in the artifacts below.  The artifacts utilize a range of different coding languages showing a depth of knowledge across high-level languages and also highlight good coding practices and formatting with each source code.  Each artifact was picked based on highlights of a different coding language and the utilization of that coding language to build a successful program across many different mediums and platforms.  The first artifact you will find focuses on software design and engineering and is an Android app that is built in Java and XML code.  This artifact will highlight my knowledge in these coding languages along with how to build a well-designed and engaging mobile application.  The second artifact focuses on algorithms and data structuring and is a calculation project that utilizes Visual Basic coding.  This artifact shows how Visual Basic coding can be utilized to create detailed and intricate algorithms to create data output efficiently even within an Excel program.  The last artifact focuses on databases and is a weather tracking program that utilizes Python and Visual Basic coding.  This artifact utilizes a RaspberryPi device to build a local weather database and integrates with an online weather database to analyze weather patterns and track weather changes from year to year.  This artifact highlights not only the use of Python coding but the ability to utilize emerging technology like RaspberryPis and utilize cross-platform integration to build effective programs.

## Code Review

The informal code review of all the artifacts before enhancements can be found on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LO5R9o2_AcE)

## Artifacts

### Software Design and Engineering
My artifact for software design/engineering is an Android app that was created in a previous semester class that is meant to be an event tracking app.   You can view the source code for the app [here](https://github.com/chrislparks7/ePortfolio/blob/master/Event%20Tracking%20App%20(Software%20Design%20and%20Engineering).zip). Users can input important events they wish to remember and then will see a list of events and get reminders on the day of the events.  I chose this app for my artifact as it is a good display of my ability to create Android apps and working through the app helped build that knowledge base as well.  In addition, since the app is made in Android Studio, I utilized Java and XML coding languages to build the program which will show my skill in these two languages to self-promote my knowledge.  I have improved the app by following good coding practices and commenting my work throughout all the different Java modules so any outside viewer would be able to follow along with the code.  I also improved the method with which data is pulled from the database to the main program module by utilizing cursor search methods to query data from a database.  This was a valuable process to learn and will help me utilize this skill in the future. 

### Algorithms and Data Structuring
My artifact for algorithms and data structures is a RAP calculator program that I made in Excel as a personal project for my office at work.  You can view the source code for the program [here](https://github.com/chrislparks7/ePortfolio/blob/master/RAP%20Calculator%20(Algorithm%20and%20Data%20Structures).zip).  This program takes data from a SQL database and pulls it into Excel where the data is calculated and produces statistics on completion rates for different events.  The different modules and class files that make up this program are quite complex and run several different computations when called.  One of the modules allows users to pull a list of personnel they want statistics on based on their selection of squadron(s) and fiscal year(s).  Another module runs the reports on the list of personnel and creates a statistical overview based on the completion of events by the personnel selected.  The remaining modules control the SQL database pull and allow the user to export the report into a clean format that can no longer be modified for a simplified report document. 
	
This artifact is a good showcase of not only my skill in visual basic coding but also my ability to perform SQL queries along with creating complex algorithms and data structuring.  This program deals with quite a large amount of data which must be calculated and statistically organized using complex algorithms.  This project is a great example I can showcase the use of good data structuring to organize information so that it can be easily inputted into algorithms and computed with pre-defined formulas.  This project also allowed me to work with large algorithms and figure out how to make them run faster or more efficiently by utilizing good mathematic properties. While enhancing the code for this project, I found some code that was either unnecessary or unneeded and was able to clear that code out.  I achieved many of my goals for this project including removing unused code from some legacy modules, commenting on the code throughout all the modules, and creating a new feature that allows users to selectively add additional personnel to the personnel list.  This code needed extensive code commenting and it is much easier to read and understand with the extent of code commenting throughout now

### Databases
My artifact for databases is a weather station program that I made in Python and Excel as an expansion on a program from a previous class.  You can find the Python Script and Excel docuement with the source files [here](https://github.com/chrislparks7/ePortfolio/blob/master/Weather%20Analysis%20(Databases).zip). This program takes data from a RaspberryPi and GrovePi+ and creates a JSON file as it collects the weather data.  This JSON database is then imported into an Excel along with a historical weather database for the area.  A module is run in Excel is run by the click of a button which compiles all the data together from the two databases and runs a comparison between the station data and the historical data.  A chart is generated to show the historical data in a graphical form and a comparison between the two data sets is displayed on the Excel workbook.  
	
This artifact is a good showcase of not only my skill in Visual Basic and Python coding but also my ability to perform data structuring with multiple databases.  As two different databases have to be managed with this program, it was a good exercise in working to understand how different databases are structured and how to manipulate those databases so that data research can be performed.  This artifact will show the use of a Python program, a JSON data file, a CSV database file, and an Excel file all working in tandem to create the final product.  This shows my flexibility in many different programs and my skills in multiple languages and database types.  I was, unfortunately, unable to introduce SQL into this program as originally planned but a suitable alternative was found and still highlights very useful database skills.  Many challenges were faced when creating these products but, in those challenges, I learned many new skills in Python, Visual Basic, and JSON database formation.
